Hello and welcome back to the course on Tobler in today's tutorial we will connect our special and PTF
data and also take care of some data integrity and data completeness.
Now in the previous tutorial we connected to each of the data sources individually but we need to join
them together to get the additional information relating to the crime statistics onto the map.
Really use adjoint for that.
Now we've already done most of the work on our crime stats on our PTF.
So it's the lead.
Everything else.
So we can delete this shit over here.
And if we go into our data source we can also just go to New York parks and public spaces and just close
the data so just to keep out work nice and tidy.
Now we can also go back again and just rename our data source as well and we can call those New York
crime stats with the geometry a nice long name but at least we know which one it is and what we can
do now I just follow or redo the steps from the previous lecture maybe connected to the special file.
Now this case we run go to data new data source we want to use the same data source and just add another
connection so we adding another connection by taking a special fall and selecting our shape file.
Now immediately Tablo will see that we want to join these two together and seeing as it can find a field
which to join on it allows us to select what we want to do.
So we're going to do and enjoy it because we want all the fields from both data sets that joined together
so.
And how will these do so we know we've got the Bok name on the PDAF side and now on the shortfall side
we know the name is called or the field name with your name in the name that you would want.
So once we've selected that Tablo populates it for us and we can just close our joint.
Now that seems that that was just way too easy.
But we've done all the hard work before.
But let's just quickly check the data integrity and data completeness and I cannot stress enough that
when working with open source data.
Just to make sure especially when combining two data sources on a net feel like a name that something
hasn't gone wrong we haven't created additional records or duplicate entries and some of the records
that you wanted to show especially when using the inner joy is actually you know from a PTF site is
actually in there.
So first thing we'll check is just the number of records once again the number of incidents and we know
previously we had a hundred nine.
Now we have 104.
So something has gone wrong.
So what will be checked to do things we'll that we'll look for.
Firstly relook at duplicates if any duplicates have been created.
Even though the number of records is less it's always good to check the triplicates because if there
were records that were dropped that duplicates can actually make up for that.
And we also look with for records that didn't join properly.
So first how we start off with this is we can take the name 3:01 which is from our Special fall.
Put that into rows and take the pork name into the Rose as well.
And now we can see we've put the number of incidents which we don't want By the way we actually want
the number of records.
We want to see is for between the PTF and these right between the PTF on the site and the special fall
and that's not all they need to be could break so do we have records for.
Add to that is more than one and we can just actually sort on that and immediately we see and they are
quite a range of those.
So how do we go about this.
We need to deliver on this project and we don't have time now to investigate this.
So what we will do is we will look at how we can exclude these discussing with our client or look for
alternative data but for the purposes of this Tauriel we will just not exclude those because we don't
have access to change the spatial data.
But what we can also look at is that some of these do not actually have a number of incidents so you
remember from our PDA fall that they were records that had zero incidence.
So what we could do is we can just take the incidents put that into filter and filter all of the zeros
out just to see you know in terms of what the actually the the problem is.
So if we do that we see there's only two records that had incidents that creates duplicate entries on
there.
So what we will do for now is we can just take these two just select both of them and we'll just so's
or select them up again.
Pest Control see and put them into an Excel document just to make sure that we keep track of what we
are.
And it just opened that up what we are executing or putting on the parking lot to take care of after
we finished the visualization.
And that will take care of our duplicate entries.
So now we are also concerned about anything that has enjoined.
So let's go back to our data source changed our joined type 2 live join now that would take all of the
entries.
If you remember correctly from the previous section or previous tutorials we will take one of the entries
from our fall and only the joining ones on the special fall and this will allow us to a look at any
entries in here that had actually incident's more than zero.
That did not doing too a fall correct.
And that could be due to a number of different reasons the spelling might be incorrect or a name change
could have taken place or any other inconsistencies but let's have a look at our sheet what sort of
game we want.
OK so we know we need to be filtering for incident zero.
We are counting the number of records in there.
And let's just actually again sort this now that we've made the change just sort it once again.
Now what do we see.
There are indeed talks and if you mean these box off from your PDA a fall and these parks do not have
a corresponding entry in your special file which means that these do actually have incidents connected
to them but they are not be able to show on the graph on the map which means then that all data will
not be complete just as well we take this.
And again we can just highlight these.
We can just highlight all of these.
I'll just copy them and put them in the Excel document because as we know we will we will just to for
now at least ignore these and keep them on the list to discuss with our client separately or look for
alternative solution.
And that's basically the ones they live in that we will be using.
So we'll just copy that.
And now if we go back into tabla we can go back to a data source change our joint to an in a joint once
again and now we just need to exclude those.
Now we know we will do this at the data source filter and we actually already excluded the data was
full to ball under that it was full to the total.
If you remember correctly from earlier and now we can just use this custom value list option over here
to paste what we have just copied into the list and it would exclude these ones.
In addition as well.
And then we just finished.
Okay.
And our number of entries are joined up.
And if we now look at any problems you can see all the nulls have disappeared and we only have one record
for each of them.
So this is exactly what we have done.
Not the best solution because we do want to show all of them but we'll put it on the parking lot for
now to investigate once we've completed the visualization.
Now we can just clean up our data source so we know this and only certain fields we want to keep so
we can hide the first three and we can rename this name to you on one to give it a more descriptive
name and we will just call this park name and we will continue in hiding more of these fields.
We really don't need to try now and we'll go up to borrow.
We want to keep borrowers and they will only give borrower a proper name and let's just call this the
city bar.
All right then continue hiding and I think the only field we still need is the geometry so we can just
select all of them by holding down shift and click hide.
I guess this is really second nature to you so if I'm skipping a few steps Luckily you already looked
at the previous tutorials.
Right.
And that's in essence what we were looking for.
We've got the POC name from obviously from both data sources the city barrer the adjacent geometry which
we spoke about and to borrow from our PDA fault as well as the incidents in actual fact we can hide
Also the borrow from our PDA.
We will use it from the actual from the city generated information.
OK.
So that is then our data ready and prepped for our visualization.
So let's quickly clear that's what we've created and just put the geometry on there to see what we will
deal with.
And that is exactly it you can see we don't have central park Central Park wasn't in our crime statistics
are obviously doing a joint to remove them and it will remove all the problematic ones which we've identified.
But at least we know our data is complete for what our purposes are today.
Now in the next tutorial we will finally get to creating that awesome visualization and putting everything
together.
And I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then happy analyzing.